

49. MDM Policy Pract. 2018 May 2;3(1):2381468318765172. doi:
10.1177/2381468318765172. eCollection 2018 Jan-Jun.

Individualized Colorectal Cancer Screening Discussions Between Older Adults and
Their Primary Care Providers: A Cross-Sectional Study.

Kistler CE(1), Golin C(2), Sundaram A(3), Morris C(1), Dalton AF(4), Ferrari
R(5), Lewis CL(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Family Medicine, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
School of Medicine, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
(2)Department of Medicine, and Department of Health Behavior, Gillings School of 
Global Health, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
(3)School of Medicine, Northeast Ohio Medical University, Rootstown, OH, USA.
(4)Division of General Internal Medicine, University of Colorado School of
Medicine, Aurora, CO, USA.
(5)Cecil G. Sheps Center for Health Services Research, University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.

Introduction. Discussions of colorectal cancer (CRC) screening with older adults 
should be individualized to maximize appropriate screening. Our aim was to
describe CRC screening discussions and explore their associations with patient
characteristics and screening intentions. Methods. Cross-sectional survey of 422 
primary care patients aged â‰¥70 years and eligible for CRC screening, including
open-ended questions about CRC screening discussions. Primary outcomes were the
frequency with which CRC screening discussions occurred, who had those
discussions, and the domains that emerged from thematic analysis of participants'
brief reports of their discussions. We also examined the associations between 1) 
patient characteristics and whether a screening discussion occurred and 2) the
domains discussed and what screening decisions were made. Results. Of 422
participants, 209 reported having discussions and 201 responded to open-ended
questions about CRC discussions. In a regression analysis, several factors were
associated with increased odds of having a discussion: participants' preference
to pursue screening (odds ratio [OR] 2.3, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.3, 3.9),
good health (OR 2.9, 95% CI 1.7, 4.8), and receipt of the decision aid (OR 2.1,
95% CI 1.4, 3.2). Our thematic analysis identified five domains related to
discussion content and three related to discussion process. The CRC
screening-related information domain was the most commonly discussed content
domain, and the timing/frequency domain was associated with increased odds of
intent to pursue screening. Decision-making role, the most commonly discussed
process domain, was associated with increased odds of the intent to forgo CRC
screening. Conclusions and Relevance. CRC screening discussions varied by type of
participant and content. Future work is needed to determine if interventions
focused on specific domains alters the appropriateness of participants'
colorectal cancer screening intentions.

DOI: 10.1177/2381468318765172 
PMCID: PMC6157429
PMID: 30288441 
