

66. Biomaterials. 2018 Dec;185:205-218. doi: 10.1016/j.biomaterials.2018.09.016. Epub
2018 Sep 13.

Immune lipoprotein nanostructures inspired relay drug delivery for amplifying
antitumor efficiency.

Han Y(1), Ding B(1), Zhao Z(1), Zhang H(1), Sun B(2), Zhao Y(1), Jiang L(1), Zhou
J(3), Ding Y(4).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Natural Medicines, Department of Pharmaceutics, China 
Pharmaceutical University, 24 Tongjiaxiang, Nanjing, 210009, China.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center,
Carolina Center for Cancer Nanotechnology Excellence, Carolina Institute of
Nanomedicine, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC 27599,
USA.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Natural Medicines, Department of Pharmaceutics, China 
Pharmaceutical University, 24 Tongjiaxiang, Nanjing, 210009, China. Electronic
address: zhoujianp60@163.com.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Natural Medicines, Department of Pharmaceutics, China 
Pharmaceutical University, 24 Tongjiaxiang, Nanjing, 210009, China. Electronic
address: dydszyzf@163.com.

Chemo-immunotherapy represents an appealing approach to improving cancer
treatment. Simultaneously administrating chemotherapeutics with immunoadjuvants
can elicit potent tumor death and immune responses. Herein, high density
lipoprotein (HDL) inspired immune lipoprotein was proposed for relay drug
delivery and amplifying antitumor therapy. Lipophilic AS1411
aptamer-immunoadjuvant CpG fused sequences (Apt-CpG-DSPE) were conjugated to
facilitate decoration onto HDLs; and doxorubicin (Dox) was successively
intercalated into the consecutive base pairs of Apt-CpG to complete immune HDL
nanodrug imHDL/Apt-CpG-Dox. For relay drug delivery, imHDL/Apt-CpG-Dox underwent 
site-specific structure collapse in tumor intercellular substances inspired from 
HDL biofunctions (sequential module I); subsequently, dissociated Apt-CpG-Dox was
endocytosed into tumor cells mediated by the recognition of AS1411 and nucleolin 
(sequential module II), translocating Dox to nucleus and enabling tumor ablation 
and antigens release. The liberated CpG motif further evoked antigen recognition,
induced vast secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines and potentiated host
antitumor immunity. Our studies demonstrated that HDL biomimetic platform based
relay drug delivery strategy outperformed the monotherapy counterparts in
malignant tumor models, eventually generating an augmented antitumor efficacy.

Copyright Â© 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biomaterials.2018.09.016 
PMID: 30245388 
