

80. Mol Cancer Ther. 2018 Sep 19. pii: molcanther.0348.2018. doi:
10.1158/1535-7163.MCT-18-0348. [Epub ahead of print]

Histone deacetylase inhibitors synergizes with catalytic inhibitors of EZH2 to
exhibit anti-tumor activity in small cell carcinoma of the ovary, hypercalcemic
type.

Wang Y(1), Chen SY(2), Colborne S(3), Lambert G(4), Shin CY(4), Dos Santos N(5), 
Orlando KA(6), Lang JD(7), Hendricks WPD(7), Bally MB(8), Karnezis AN(2), Hass
R(9), Underhill TM(10), Morin GB(11), Trent JM(7), Weissman BE(6), Huntsman
DG(12).

Author information: 
(1)Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of British Columbia
yewang@bccrc.ca.
(2)Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of British Columbia.
(3)Michael Smith Genome Science Centre, British Columbia Cancer Agency.
(4)Department of Molecular Oncology, British Columbia Cancer Research Centre.
(5)Department of Experimental Therapeutics, British Columbia Cancer Research
Centre.
(6)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of North Carolina 
at Chapel Hill.
(7)Division of Integrated Cancer Genomics, Translational Genomics Research
Institute (TGen).
(8)Experimental Therapeutics, British Columbia Cancer Research Centre.
(9)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Hannover Medical School.
(10)Department of Cellular and Physiological Sciences, Biomedical Research
Centre, University of British Columbia.
(11)Michael Smith Genome Science Centre, Brtish Columbia Cancer Agency.
(12)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of British
Columbia.

Small cell carcinoma of the ovary, hypercalcemic type (SCCOHT) is a rare but
extremely lethal malignancy that mainly impacts young women. SCCOHT is
characterized by a diploid genome with loss of SMARCA4 and lack of SMARCA2
expression, two mutually exclusive ATPases of the SWI/SNF chromatin-remodeling
complex. We and others have identified the histone methyltransferase EZH2 as a
promising therapeutic target for SCCOHT, suggesting that SCCOHT cells depend on
the alternation of epigenetic pathways for survival. In this study, we found that
SCCOHT cells were more sensitive to pan-HDAC inhibitors compared to other ovarian
cancer lines or immortalized cell lines tested. Pan-HDAC inhibitors, such as
quisinostat, reversed the expression of a group of proteins that were deregulated
in SCCOHT cells due to SMARCA4 loss, leading to growth arrest, apoptosis and
differentiation in vitro and suppressed tumor growth of xenografted tumors of
SCCOHT cells. Moreover, combined treatment of HDAC inhibitors and EZH2 inhibitors
at sub-lethal doses synergistically induced histone H3K27 acetylation and target 
gene expression, leading to rapid induction of apoptosis and growth suppression
of SCCOHT cells and xenografted tumors. Therefore, our preclinical study
highlighted the therapeutic potential of combined treatment of HDAC inhibitors
with EZH2 catalytic inhibitors to treat SCCOHT.

Copyright Â©2018, American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/1535-7163.MCT-18-0348 
PMID: 30232145 
