

8. J Oncol Pract. 2018 Oct 24:JOP1800120. doi: 10.1200/JOP.18.00120. [Epub ahead of 
print]

Financial Toxicity in Adults With Cancer: Adverse Outcomes and Noncompliance.

Knight TG(1), Deal AM(1), Dusetzina SB(1), Muss HB(1), Choi SK(1), Bensen JT(1), 
Williams GR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Atrium Health, Charlotte; University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC;
Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, TN; The University of Alabama at
Birmingham, Birmingham, AL.

PURPOSE:: Because of the escalating cost of cancer care coupled with high
insurance deductibles, premiums, and uninsured populations, patients with cancer 
are affected by treatment-related financial harm, known as financial toxicity.
The purpose of this study was to describe individuals reporting financial
toxicity and to identify rates of and reasons for affordability-related treatment
noncompliance.
METHODS:: From May 2010 to November 2015, adult patients (age â‰¥ 18 years) with
cancer were identified from a Health Registry/Cancer Survivorship Cohort.
Financial toxicity was defined as agreement with the phrase "You have to pay for 
more medical care than you can afford" from the Patient Satisfaction
Questionnaire-18. Logistic regression and Fisher exact tests were used to compare
groups.
RESULTS:: Of 1,988 participants, 524 (26%) reported financial toxicity. Patients 
reporting financial toxicity were more likely age 65 years or younger, female,
nonwhite, non-English speaking, not married, less educated, and to have received 
a diagnosis more recently (all P < .001). Participants with financial toxicity
were more likely to report noncompliance with medication, owing to inability to
afford prescription drugs (relative risk [RR], 3.55; 95% CI, 2.53 to 4.98), and
reported forgoing mental health care (RR, 3.89; 95% CI, 2.04 to 7.45), doctor's
visits (RR, 2.98; 95% CI, 1.97 to 4.51), and medical tests (RR, 2.54; 95% CI,
1.49 to 4.34). The most endorsed reasons for delayed care were not having
insurance coverage and being unable to afford household expenses.
CONCLUSION:: More than 25% of adults with cancer reported financial toxicity that
was associated with an increased risk for medical noncompliance. Financial
toxicity remains a major issue in cancer care, and efforts are needed to ensure
patients experiencing high levels of financial toxicity are able to access
recommended care.

DOI: 10.1200/JOP.18.00120 
PMID: 30355027 
