

77. Dis Mon. 2018 Oct;64(10):451-466. doi: 10.1016/j.disamonth.2018.07.002. Epub 2018
Sep 18.

Perspectives on the opioid crisis from pain medicine clinicians.

Jay GW(1), Barkin RL(2).

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Professor, Department of Neurology, University of North Carolina,
United States.
(2)Professor, Rush University Medical College, Departments of Anesthesiology,
Family Medicine, Pharmacology, Clinical Pharmacologist Department of
Anesthesiology, Pain Centers of Skokie and Evanston Hospitals, NorthShore
University Health System, IL, United States. Electronic address:
rbarkin@rush.edu.

Patients experiencing a terminal drug related event reflect a sentinel event. If 
this pharmacotherapy is a widely used agent, it may be viewed as a catastrophic
problem. If patients are dying from illegal drug use when the medical
establishment fails them by withdrawing or minimizing their medically prescribed 
medication, then the burden rests with their health care providers, legislation, 
and insurance carriers to actively participate in a collegial fashion to achieve 
parity. Causing a decay in functionality in previously functional patients, may
occur with appropriately prescribed opioid medications addressing non-cancer pain
when withdrawing or diminishing either with or without patient consent. The
members of the medical profession have diminished their prescribing of opioids
for their patients out of apparent fear of reprisal, state or federal government 
sanctions, and other concerned groups. Diminishing former dosages or deleting the
opioid medication, preferably in concert with the patient, often results in
inequitable patient care. Enforcing sanctioned decreases or ceasing to prescribe 
from their former required/established opioid medications precipitate patient
discord. In absence of opioid misuse, abuse, diversion or addiction based upon
medical "guidelines" and with a poor foundation of Evidence Based Medicine the
CDC guidelines, it may be masked as a true guideline reflecting a decrement of
clinical judgment, wisdom, and compassion. This article also discusses the role
of pharmacy chains, insurance carriers, and their pharmacy benefit managers
(PBMs) contribution to this multidimensional problem. There may be a potential
solution, identified in this paper, if all the associated political, medical and 
insurance groups work cohesively to improve patient care. This article and the
CDC guidelines are not focused at hospice, palliative, end of life care pain
management.

Copyright Â© 2018. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.disamonth.2018.07.002 
PMID: 30236900  [Indexed for MEDLINE]
