

85. Ultrasound Med Biol. 2018 Sep 15. pii: S0301-5629(18)30336-3. doi:
10.1016/j.ultrasmedbio.2018.08.003. [Epub ahead of print]

Optimization of Phase-Change Contrast Agents for Targeting MDA-MB-231 Breast
Cancer Cells.

Hadinger KP(1), Marshalek JP(1), Sheeran PS(2), Dayton PA(3), Matsunaga TO(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Imaging, University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona, USA.
(2)Physical Sciences Department, Sunnybrook Research Institute, Toronto, Ontario,
Canada; Department of Medical Biophysics, University of Toronto, Toronto,
Ontario, Canada.
(3)Joint Department of Biomedical Engineering, University of North Carolina and
North Carolina State University, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, USA.
(4)Department of Medical Imaging, University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona, USA.
Electronic address: Tmatsunaga@radiology.arizona.edu.

Breast cancer remains a leading cause of death for women throughout the world.
Recent advances in medical imaging technologies and tumor targeting agents
signify vast potential for progress toward improved management of this global
problem. Phase-change contrast agents (PCCAs) are dynamic imaging agents with
practical applications in both the research and clinical settings. PCCAs possess 
characteristics that allow for cellular uptake where they can be converted from
liquid-phase PCCAs to gaseous microbubbles via ultrasound energy. Previously, we 
reported successful internalization of folate-targeted PCCAs in MDA-MB-231 breast
cancer cells followed by ultrasound-mediated activation to produce internalized
microbubbles. This study examines the binding, internalization and activation of 
folate-receptor targeted PCCAs in MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells as a function of
gaseous core compositions, incubation time and ultrasound exposure period. In
vitro results indicate that internalization and ultrasound-mediated activation of
PCCAs were significantly greater using a 50:50 mixture of
decafluorobutane:dodecafluoropentane compared with other core compositions: 50:50
octafluoropropane:decafluorobutane (p < 0.0001), decafluorobutane (p < 0.04) and 
dodecafluoropentane (p < 0.0001). Furthermore, it was found that PCCAs composed
of perfluorocarbons with higher boiling points responded with greater activation 
efficiency when exposed to 12s of ultrasound exposure as opposed to 4s of
ultrasound exposure. When evaluating different incubation times, it was found
that incubating the PCCAs with breast cancer cells for 60min did not produce
significantly greater internalization and activation compared with incubation for
10 min; this was concluded after comparing the number of microbubbles present per
cell before ultrasound versus post-ultrasound, and finding a ratio of
intracellular microbubbles post-ultrasound/pre-ultrasound, 3.46 versus 3.14,
respectively. The data collected in this study helps illustrate further
optimization of folate-receptor targeted PCCAs for breast cancer targeting and
imaging.

Copyright Â© 2018 World Federation for Ultrasound in Medicine 8 Biology. Published
by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ultrasmedbio.2018.08.003 
PMID: 30228045 
