

87. Mol Pharm. 2018 Oct 1. doi: 10.1021/acs.molpharmaceut.8b00672. [Epub ahead of
print]

Synthesis and Characterization of Cetuximab-Docetaxel and Panitumumab-Docetaxel
Antibody-Drug Conjugates for EGFR-Overexpressing Cancer Therapy.

Glatt DM(1), Beckford Vera DR(2), Prabhu SS(1), Mumper RJ(1), Luft JC(1),
Benhabbour SR(1)(3), Parrott MC(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pharmacoengineering and Molecular Pharmaceutics, UNC Eshelman
School of Pharmacy , University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill , 125 Mason Farm
Road , Chapel Hill , North Carolina 27599 , United States.
(2)Department of Radiology, Biomedical Research Imaging Center , University of
North Carolina at Chapel Hill , Marsico Hall, 125 Mason Farm Road , Chapel Hill ,
North Carolina 27599 , United States.
(3)UNC-NCSU Joint Department of Biomedical Engineering , University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill , Marsico Hall, 125 Mason Farm Road , Chapel Hill , North
Carolina 27599 , United States.

The safety and efficacy of anticancer antibody-drug conjugates (ADCs) depend on
the selection of tumor-targeting monoclonal antibody (mAb), linker, and drug, as 
well as their specific chemical arrangement and linkage chemistry. In this study,
we used a heterobifunctional cross-linker to conjugate docetaxel (DX) to
cetuximab (CET) or panitumumab (PAN). The resulting ADCs were investigated for
their in vitro EGFR-specific cytotoxicity and in vivo anticancer activity.
Reaction conditions, such as reducing agent, time, temperature, and alkylation
buffer, were optimized to yield potent and stable ADCs with consistent
batch-to-batch drug-to-antibody ratios (DARs). ADCs were synthesized with DARs
from 0.4 to 3.0, and all retained their EGFR affinity and specificity after
modification. ADCs were sensitive to cell surface wildtype EGFR expression,
demonstrating more cytotoxicity in EGFR-expressing A431 and MDA-MB-231 cell lines
compared to U87MG cells. A431 tumor-bearing mice treated once weekly for four
weeks with 100 mg/kg cetuximab-docetaxel ADC (C-SC-DX, DAR 2.5) showed durable
anticancer responses and improved overall survival compared to the same treatment
regimen with 1 mg/kg DX, 100 mg/kg CET, or a combination 1 mg/kg DX and 100 mg/kg
CET. New treatment options are emerging for patients with both wild-type and
mutated EGFR-overexpressing cancers, and these studies highlight the potential
role of EGFR-targeted ADC therapies as a promising new treatment option.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.molpharmaceut.8b00672 
PMID: 30226780 
