

81. Am Soc Clin Oncol Educ Book. 2018 May 23;(38):813-821. doi: 10.1200/EDBK_201307.

Best Practices in Oncology Distress Management: Beyond the Screen.

Smith SK(1), Loscalzo M(1), Mayer C(1), Rosenstein DL(1).

Author information: 
(1)From the Duke University School of Nursing, Durham, NC; Sheri & Les Biller
Patient and Family Resource Center, Department of Supportive Care Medicine,
Department of Population Sciences, City of Hope, Duarte, CA; Supportive Care
Oncology Program, Northeast Cancer Centre, Sudbury, ON, Canada; Departments of
Psychiatry and Medicine, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel
Hill, NC.

The field of psychosocial oncology is a young discipline with a rapidly expanding
evidence base. Over the past few decades, several lines of research have
established that psychosocial problems, such as anxiety, depression,
post-traumatic stress, fatigue, sexual dysfunction, and cognitive complaints, are
common and consequential in patients with cancer. The word "distress" was chosen 
deliberately to capture a broad concept; consequently, distress screening is
meant to function as an initial step in the more targeted evaluation of the
source(s) of the patient's distress. In 2015, the American College of Surgeons'
Commission on Cancer mandated psychosocial distress screening as part of their
accreditation process. Similar screening requirements are in place
internationally, including in Canada, where screening for distress is endorsed as
the sixth vital sign and a standard of care that must be met by any Canadian
health care organization providing cancer services that seeks to be accredited.
Over the past few years, cancer centers around the world have been exploring
optimum ways to implement and evaluate distress screening initiatives. This paper
presents three approaches to distress screening implementation: (1) a model that 
incorporates the importance of shared values, perceived benefits, and relevant
outcomes in the implementation of distress management protocols; (2) a Canadian
knowledge translation application to distress screening, including triage
considerations and interventions; and (3) a novel approach to distress management
via the use of a mobile application to manage post-traumatic stress symptoms. In 
closing, future opportunities and challenges associated with the emergence of
technology will be discussed.

DOI: 10.1200/EDBK_201307 
PMID: 30231391 
