

96. PLoS Pathog. 2018 Sep 13;14(9):e1007267. doi: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1007267.
eCollection 2018 Sep.

Chromatin remodeling controls Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus
reactivation from latency.

Hopcraft SE(1), Pattenden SG(2), James LI(2), Frye S(2), Dittmer DP(1), Damania
B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, Department of Microbiology and
Immunology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, United 
States of America.
(2)Center for Integrative Chemical Biology and Drug Discovery, Division of
Chemical Biology and Medicinal Chemistry, Eshelman School of Pharmacy, University
of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, United States of America.

Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) is the etiologic agent of three
human malignancies, the endothelial cell cancer Kaposi's sarcoma, and two B cell 
cancers, Primary Effusion Lymphoma and multicentric Castleman's disease. KSHV has
latent and lytic phases of the viral life cycle, and while both contribute to
viral pathogenesis, lytic proteins contribute to KSHV-mediated oncogenesis.
Reactivation from latency is driven by the KSHV lytic gene transactivator RTA,
and RTA transcription is controlled by epigenetic modifications. To identify host
chromatin-modifying proteins that are involved in the latent to lytic transition,
we screened a panel of inhibitors that target epigenetic regulatory proteins for 
their ability to stimulate KSHV reactivation. We found several novel regulators
of viral reactivation: an inhibitor of Bmi1, PTC-209, two additional histone
deacetylase inhibitors, Romidepsin and Panobinostat, and the bromodomain
inhibitor (+)-JQ1. All of these compounds stimulate lytic gene expression, viral 
genome replication, and release of infectious virions. Treatment with Romidepsin,
Panobinostat, and PTC-209 induces histone modifications at the RTA promoter, and 
results in nucleosome depletion at this locus. Finally, silencing Bmi1 induces
KSHV reactivation, indicating that Bmi1, a member of the Polycomb repressive
complex 1, is critical for maintaining KSHV latency.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1007267 
PMCID: PMC6136816
PMID: 30212584 
